Every one of us is, in the cosmic perspective, precious. If a human disagrees
with you, let him live. In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find
another. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: humanity, individuality, love, mercy 2333 likes like
The nitrogen in our DNA, the calcium in our teeth, the iron in our blood, the
carbon in our apple pies were made in the interiors of collapsing stars. We
are made of starstuff. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: atoms, cosmos, dna, sense-of-wonder, stars 1468 likes like
If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the
universe. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: science 1063 likes like
What an astonishing thing a book is. It's a flat object made from a tree with
flexible parts on which are imprinted lots of funny dark squiggles. But one
glance at it and you're inside the mind of another person, maybe somebody dead
for thousands of years. Across the millennia, an author is speaking clearly
and silently inside your head, directly to you. Writing is perhaps the
greatest of human inventions, binding together people who never knew each
other, citizens of distant epochs. Books break the shackles of time. A book is
proof that humans are capable of working magic."

[Cosmos, Part 11: The Persistence of Memory (1980)] 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: books, literature, reading, words, writing 689 likes like
We are a way for the cosmos to know itself. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: cosmos, science, thought-provoking 270 likes like
Books permit us to voyage through time, to tap the wisdom of our ancestors.
The library connects us with the insight and knowledge, painfully extracted
from Nature, of the greatest minds that ever were, with the best teachers,
drawn from the entire planet and from all our history, to instruct us without
tiring, and to inspire us to make our own contribution to the collective
knowledge of the human species. I think the health of our civilization, the
depth of our awareness about the underpinnings of our culture and our concern
for the future can all be tested by how well we support our libraries. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: books, civilization, education, history, knowledge, libraries, wisdom
202 likes like
The beauty of a living thing is not the atoms that go into it, but the way
those atoms are put together. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: atoms, beauty, cosmos, philosophy, science, universe 172 likes like
The absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
149 likes like
The Cosmos is all that is or was or ever will be. Our feeblest contemplations
of the Cosmos stir us -- there is a tingling in the spine, a catch in the
voice, a faint sensation, as if a distant memory, of falling from a height. We
know we are approaching the greatest of mysteries. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: carl-sagan, cosmos, life, mystery, universe 139 likes like
The size and age of the Cosmos are beyond ordinary human understanding. Lost
somewhere between immensity and eternity is our tiny planetary home. In a
cosmic perspective, most human concerns seem insignificant, even petty. And
yet our species is young and curious and brave and shows much promise. In the
last few millennia we have made the most astonishing and unexpected
discoveries about the Cosmos and our place within it, explorations that are
exhilarating to consider. They remind us that humans have evolved to wonder,
that understanding is a joy, that knowledge is prerequisite to survival. I
believe our future depends on how well we know this Cosmos in which we float
like a mote of dust in the morning sky. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: humanity, knowledge, sagan, science 114 likes like
Exploration is in our nature. We began as wanderers, and we are wanderers
still. We have lingered long enough on the shores of the cosmic ocean. We are
ready at last to set sail for the stars. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
109 likes like
One glance at (a book) and you hear the voice of another person - perhaps
someone dead for thousands of years. Across the millenia, the author is
speaking, clearly and silently, inside your head, directly to you. Writing is
perhaps the greatest of human inventions, binding together people, citizens of
distant epochs, who never knew one another. Books break the shackles of time. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: books 104 likes like
Books break the shackles of time, proof that humans can work magic. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
80 likes like
Observation: I can't see a thing. Conclusion: Dinosaurs. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: humor, sagan, skepticism 76 likes like
The surface of the Earth is the shore of the cosmic ocean. On this shore,
we've learned most of what we know. Recently, we've waded a little way out,
maybe ankle-deep, and the water seems inviting. Some part of our being knows
this is where we came from. We long to return, and we can, because the cosmos
is also within us. We're made of star stuff. We are a way for the cosmos to
know itself. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
74 likes like
Atoms are mainly empty space. Matter is composed chiefly of nothing. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
74 likes like
The Hindu religion is the only one of the worlds great faiths dedicated to the
idea that the Cosmos itself undergoes an immense, indeed an infinite, number
of deaths and rebirths.
It is the only religion in which the time scales correspond to those of modern
scientific cosmology. Its cycles run from our ordinary day and night to a day
and night of Brahma, 8.64 billion years long. Longer than the age of the Earth
or the Sun and about half the time since the Big Bang. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: big-bang-theory, cosmology, cosmos, hindu, vedantism, vedas 72 likes
like
If I finish a book a week, I will read only a few thousand books in my
lifetime, about a tenth of a percent of the contents of the greatest libraries
of our time. The trick is to know which books to read. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
68 likes like
You are worth about 3 dollars worth in chemicals. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
66 likes like
We inhabit a universe where atoms are made in the centers of stars; where each
second a thousand suns are born; where life is sparked by sunlight and
lightning in the airs and waters of youthful planets; where the raw material
for biological evolution is sometimes made by the explosion of a star halfway
across the Milky Way; where a thing as beautiful as a galaxy is formed a
hundred billion times - a Cosmos of quasars and quarks, snowflakes and
fireflies, where there may be black holes and other universe and
extraterrestrial civilizations whose radio messages are at this moment
reaching the Earth. How pallid by comparison are the pretensions of
superstition and pseudoscience; how important it is for us to pursue and
understand science, that characteristically human endeavor.  
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
64 likes like
Books are like seeds. They can lie dormant for centuries and then flower in
the most unpromising soil. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: books 51 likes like
If we long for our planet to be important, there is something we can do about
it. We make our world significant by the courage of our questions and by the
depth of our answers. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: humanity, sagan, science 49 likes like
We are star stuff which has taken its destiny into its own hands. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: science 47 likes like
It is said that men may not be the dreams of the god, but rather that the gods
are the dreams of men. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: atheism, dreams, god, gods 45 likes like
We have begun to contemplate our origins: starstuff pondering the stars;
organized assemblages of ten billion billion billion atoms considering the
evolution of atoms; tracing the long journey by which, here at least,
consciousness arose. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
40 likes like
Theres as many atoms in a single molecule of your DNA as there are stars in
the typical galaxy. We are, each of us, a little universe. 
? Neil deGrasse Tyson, Cosmos
tags: galaxies, science, stars, universe 36 likes like
The Cosmos is all that is or ever was or ever will be. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
35 likes like
What a marvelous cooperative arrangement - plants and animals each inhaling
each other's exhalations, a kind of planet-wide mutual mouth-to-stoma
resuscitation, the entire elegant cycle powered by a star 150 million
kilometers away. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: nature, science 33 likes like
One of the saddest lessons of history is this: If we've been bamboozled long
enough, we tend to reject any evidence of the bamboozle. We're no longer
interested in finding out the truth. The bamboozle has captured us. It is
simply too painful to acknowledge -- even to ourselves -- that we've been so
credulous. (So the old bamboozles tend
to persist as the new bamboozles rise.) 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos
tags: reasoning, truth 30 likes like
When we look up at night and view the stars, everything we see is shinning
because of distant nuclear fusion. 
? Carl Sagan, Cosmos

